hi my name is Sid Matt let's see
Associate Producer an assassin's creed 4
black flag today we're going to give you
a closer look at the technical
advancements behind the most immersive
Assassin's Creed yet our sea engine is
composed of many different technologies
working together we use physically based
equations to simulate the movement and
realistic behavior of the waves a
complex shader recreates the multiple
optical behaviors that gives the ocean
it's rich and moving colors these
technologies work together to create the
most realistic virtual ocean you've ever
seen our fully dynamic weather engine
can make you feel the unique atmosphere
of the Caribbean thanks to many
different innovations rain is composed
of thousands of individual raindrops
each one particle that is independently
lit we use computers to create dynamic
ripples and puddles that react to the
intensity and direction of the wind we
also use an innovative screen space
reflection technology that accurately
mirrors the world on reflective surfaces
increased processing power allows us to
use physically based volumetric fog that
is computed in real-time and that is
also lit by multiple light sources all
of these effects work together to create
unpredictable and breathtaking weather
scenarios our global illumination
technology has been rebuilt from the
ground up the light now bounces around
the scene it's color changing based on
the properties of the reflecting
materials during production we are able
to bake thousands of light probes in a
few minutes using the power of modern
GPUs thus cutting edge lighting
technology adds realism in immersion to
ever seen in AC 4 black flag another
genuine breakthrough is our dynamic
boarding system the anvil next engine
can now take two separate animated
objects in this case two ships and build
a unique dynamic nav mesh with them this
nav mesh transformed the ships from
objects to a 3d map that can
navigated by the player and NPCs this
tech made it possible for us to create a
completely seamless and fluid gameplay
experience having more power also means
having much more foliage and vegetation
on screen 3d foliage deck allows us to
create rich natural settings with
thousands of plans we made the foliage
fully dynamic so that it accurately
reacts to the weather and the player
interaction this tech not only improves
immersion but also the stealth gameplay
as you can now see where you are riding
simply from the movement of the leaves
these are just a few examples of what
makes our Caribbean open-world so
captivating and lifelike we can't wait
for you to experience it when assassin's
creed 4 black flag lunches this fall